---
layout: post
title: Why I Blog (or even more generally why I share stuff with the world)
date: 2020-02-07 14:16 -0400
description: >-
    - Living life like it matters.
keywords:
    - life
    - philosophy
    - 80,000 hours
    - effective altruism
---

## Death and it's implications

Confucius said "we have two lives, and the second begins when we realize we only have one".

For me, that second life started while on the MTA on the way to school about 3 years ago. I live in Queens and my school was in Manhattan so I took the 7 train t o school. I hadn't discovered podcasts yet, so I spent my time on the train in other ways.

I first started by looking at other people. Although most people on the train use their phones, the mere existence of people from all different walks of lifes is extremely interesting. Of course, if you look too long at a person, you're staring, and it becomes increasingly uncomfortable for both parties.

I then shifted towards advertisements. There's a bunch of advertisements on trains (they even started doing trains completely embroidered in advertisements) and they're also interesting in the sense that they apply to different segments of people. You'd see Casper (the VC backed mattress company that burned like all its money on sales/marketing) appealing to millenials and hippies and training schools like Apex appeal to people looking to go into vocational work.

I had a phone which I used to scroll through Quora and play mobile games, but (at the time) I was fairly good at limiting my screen time. Phones tend to get boring after a while.

So this morning, I instead chose to engage my other hobby, the act of pure thinking. I set aside at least half an hour for deep unstructured thinking, something that now comes fairly natural to me.

And so in the process of this thinking, I started thinking about death. And I swear by this, while the train was going around the fairly steep curvature of the tracks of Queensboro Plaza, a ray of light (through the window and in my head) briefly shone upon me. In this moment, I realized that I would eventually die, and let those implications fully sink in. I felt my gut clench and just felt unbearably terrible for those couple of moments.

My sleep in the next couple weeks was terrible, given that I spent my time thinking about this stuff. The prospect of death and what would happen next consistently haunted me and my attempts to go to sleep.

Nevertheless, school and the routine of the educational system became overbearing, and I had to shift my mind towards dealing with those things. I knew that death would eventually hit me, but I didn't know what to do about it, and I had stuff to do.

## The Incident

So school ended and I was just relieved that it was all over. I didn't have summer plans (in terms of jobs, opportunities, or enrichment), and was excited to be vacationing to Hawaii. On the airplane there, they served food that is supposed to be "representative of Hawaii". Hawaii apparently is really into macademia nuts, so Hawaii Airlines served chocolate macademias for desert.

Now, at the time, I was well aware that I had a peanut allergy. I didn't know if this really extended to other nuts, and I ended up eating it.

It took some time, but eventually I started feeling fairly uncomfortable, feeling weird sensations. My body really started to heat up and I started to display feverish-like symptoms. We ended up getting out of the airplane, but my general condition continued to worsen, as I experienced headaches (and I like never get headaches).

We took the shuttle to rental car place, and I managed to walk up to the waiting area, before I promptly fainted and fell unconscious. It was actually weird in the sense that this unconsciousness felt comforting. This weird sense of peace and acceptance and no more pain.

I woke up a couple of minutes later, groggyish. Someone had called an ambulance and everyone was super helpful and kind. I ended up vomiting the nut (and my lunch), but felt fine afterwords.

This incident reminded me of my own mortality, and that despite the best of conditions, I could die at any moment.

## Why I Write This Blog

I'm an introvert, which means that it drains me when I'm in large groups. I don't like groupthink, and stupidness tends to prevail in groupthink. I'm also an absorber; I'm fairly good at listening to people and just absorbing everything they're saying.

The thing is, all this knowledge that I've accumulated is fairly useless if I don't share this. Progress is made on the backs and shoulders of others. I feel like I have something to share, that is personally relevant to at least a small subset of people (I don't run any sort of analytics on this blog so I can't determine readership). **I could die at any moment so I feel this sense of urgency, this need, to better improve our understanding and betterment of the world.**
This could be from a local or global context; it really doesn't matter to me. If you're also an introvert, I highly recommend you start a blog too; I'm sure you have something that a subset, just a subset, of people would find worth reading.

If you need a sense of urgency, take a look at [this](https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/life-weeks.html).

## Conclusion

If you find this content interesting, you can email me [here](mailto:jwong123@binghamton.edu) to express your appreciation (or share your own story!). I'm also working on developing a Twitter following to spread my ideas, so it'd be awesome if you could [follow](https://twitter.com/suchcaptcha) me on there as well.


